# Console, Clam, User namespace, Command, and Config overhaul

The following describes the high level plan to overhaul BotManager's user namespace, user command, and configuration architecture.

A lot of these requirements have already been implemented, but might need some tweaking. Your task is to evaluate these items against the DESIGN.md and then update the TODO.md with a methodocial and step-by-step actions necessary to achieve the overhaul.

The tasks outlined in the TODO.md should be reasonable chunks of work that are optimized for 200k agentic context sessions.

# Console and Clam Overhaul

Disassociate the console (console.c) method with the clam module. Console.c will no longer be a "subscriber" to clam, but rather it's only purpose becomes to interact with the user via stdin/stdout.

Clam then gets it's own built-in subscriber called stdinout. This is all internal to clam.c. Clam.c will include in it's KV config registration variables that allow a user with appropriate access to change it's severity and regular expression associated to the subscriptions. These default to ".*' and 255.

The console then focuses on just interaction with the user on stdin/stdout.

It has a unique ability that it can change it's association to a bot with the /console attach command. (Example: /console attach botname). The /console unattach command can be used to undo this.

By default, all input via the console method is associated with a globally built-in user called "owner". This behavior can be changed however with the "/console associate" command (eg. /console associate username). This command is only availble when the console has attached to a bot with the /console attach command

The /console unassociate command can be used to return the console to it's default state. This automatically happens if the console is unattached from a bot.

All commands received via the console method bypass prvilege checks.

## User namespace overhaul

User namespaces are instantiated and not tied to a specific bot instance. A single bot can only have one User namespace associated with it, however multiple bots may share the same User namespace.

Each User namespace will have it's own unique identity that is 30-characters or less.

The user namespace schema should be designed such that frequent updates can be made. As the code base grows and we had features, it'll need routine extensions.

The user namespace will be the source of truth for all user identities.

Each user in a namespace will have a UUID automatically generated when it is added or discovered. Each user will also have only one "username" that is bound to the auto-generated UUID. Each user can be a member of one or more groups. Each group membership a uint16_t priviledge level is associated which makes it possible for a user to have access to things granted by a group but only those items that are less than equal to the priv level.

Each user in a namespace will have one or more MFA strings associated. MFA strings will be formatted such as "handle!username@hostname". This mimicks IRC's nickname!username@hostname convention.

In the case of IRC, every PRIVMSG will include such a string. The following is an example of a single user identity with multiple IRC MFA's that identify the same user.

UUID: <autogenerated>
Username: docdrow
MFA: doc!doc@shell.hiigara.shearer.tech
MFA: doc!docdrow@laptop.theshearerfamily.com
MFA: docdrow!doc@hv1.core.shearer.tech
MFA: doc!docdrow@dyn256.springfield.atlanta.verizon.net

In this example, any message or event received that matches at least one of these MFA's will be associated with this specific user identity. The * and ? globbing characters will be supported to match against the nickname portion and the hostname portion but not the username portion. regular expressions are not supported because their flexibility can introduce security risks. However, globbing patterns that will match all strings will not be allowed. The hostmame portion of the MFA string will require at least six non-globbing characters, the nickname portion will require at least 3.

Thus a legal MFA pattern for the example user "docdrow" could be: "doc*!docdrow@*shearer.tech", thus any IRC message matching this pattern would be associated with the "docdrow" user.

To guarnatee security, each user will have to authenticate with a passphrase to become 'authenticated'. A timestamp called "authenticationtime" of when this authenticated state is achieved is recorded. Once authenticated, another timestamp is recorded called "lastseen" and will be refreshed everytime the bot noticed an event associated with one of the MFA's for this user. A configurable setting in seconds will be available called "maxidleauth" which will cause the user's authenticated state to expire once this threshhold is reached.

The maximum number of MFA's for a given user will be 10 but this is a configurable setting per bot instance.

### authenticated vs unauthenticated users

Events that are received (such as PRIVMSG's on the IRC method) that matches a user's MFA pattern can still be associated with that user. This allows various bot plugins and subsystems to track conversation with that user even if they aren't authenticated.

However, unauthenticated users can not use any user commands that are not already accessible by anonymous / everyone.

### userdiscovery

Bots will have a 'userdiscovery' setting that is disabled by default. If it is enabled, the bot will automatically create a user in it's assigned namespace on first encounter.

An encounter can be various things, depending on the method. If a bot sees any event from an unknown user, this counts as a "first encounter" and will triger the creation of a new user identity within it's assigned namespace if the 'userdiscovery' feature is enabled.

The following are examples for the IRC method: a PRIVMSG is received from an unknown user, an unknown user joins a channel that the bot is a participant, the bot joins a channel and receives a list of users within the channel thus trigging additions for all users in the channel who are currently unknown.

### user matching

Each bot instance will maintain an in-memory cache of user attributes to prevent beating up the database engine too much. Things such as UUID/MFA/usernames are examples.

## Command overhaul

The CLI is made up of "user commands" that are registered via various parts of the system, As of right now, the core and plugins are examples of systems that can register user commands. No commands exist that are not registered by this system.

Command registrations include:
- A unique name of the command (eg. "console")
- A unique abbreviation for the command (eg. "con")
- a one-line syntax help that includes it's abbreviation
- a multi-line full usage help with at least one example
- a group which must be one of the default / built-in groups: owner, admin, user, and everyone.
- a parent command, which can be NULL to identify this is a root level command. This feature will enable subcommands (see below)
- a privledge level uint16_t. So if a given command is assigned to group admin, a user must be a member of that group and the user's group priv level must be equal to or greater than this value to access

### Command structure

Generally speaking, commands begin with the name of the module they are registered by. For instance, commands registered by console.c begin with /console. The command prefix can be set on a per-bot-and-method instance. The console method defaults to /. the IRc method defaults to !.

There will be exceptions (though rare), for instance admin.c registers the "/set" command.

### Subcommands

Commands that register with a parent will be subcommands of that command. The first example of such a command will be the "show" (abbreviation "sh") command.

This command will allow users to see various attributes and config elements.

Here are some examples:

# list all defined irc networks
# irc.c must register a "subcommand" to the "show" command called "irc".
/show irc networks

# show list of running bots
/show bots

# show a list of all bots whether running or not
/show bots all

# show all kv pairs
/show kv

# get the value associated to a specific db kv pair
/show kv key.name

# to directly change one of the kv's in the config database:
/set kv configuration.item.kv.pair <value>
